Part 1: Discussion Questions

Recursion


1. In your own words, what is Recursion?
When a function calls itself (while and for loop very similar)
for i in range(1, 10):
    print i

def recursiveCount(i):
    if(i == 10):
        return
    print(i)
    recursiveCount(i+1)
recursiveCount(1)


2. Why is it necessary to have a Base Case?
Otherwise it will go on until infinity. (It's where the recursion stops = base case)

Graphs

1. What is a Graph?
Graphs are a computer-science data structure of interrelated nodes

2. How is a Graph different from a Tree?
Graph is like a network model where a tree is hierarchical

3. Give an example of something that would be good to model with a Graph.
Facebook 'friends'


Performance of Different Data Structures


1. Fill in the runtimes for the following actions for the table below:

Data Structure					Index	Search	Add-R	Add-L	Pop-L	Pop-R
Python List (Array)				O(1)	O(n)	O(1) 	O(n)	O(n)	O(1)
Linked List	 	 	 	 	 	O(n) 	O(n)	O(1)	O(1)	O(1) 	O(n)
Doubly-Linked List	 	 	 	O(n) 	O(n)	O(1)	O(1) 	O(1)	O(1) 	 
Queue (as Array)				X		X	 	O(1)	X	 	O(n)	X
Queue (as LL or DLL)			X		X	 	O(1)	X	 	O(1)	X
Stack (as Array, LL, or DLL)	X		X	 	O(1)	X		X	 	O(1)
Deque (as DLL)					X		X	 	O(1)	O(1) 	O(1) 	O(1)


2. Fill in Runtime and Memory:



Data Structure			Get			Add		Delete	Iterate	Memory
Dictionary (Hash Map)	O(1)		O(1)	O(1)	O(n)	medium
Set (Hash Map)	 	 	O(1)		O(1)	O(1)	O(n)	medium 	 	 
Binary Search Tree	 	O(log n) 	O(n) 	O(n) 	O(1)	low
Tree	 				O(n)		O(1)	O(1)	O(1)	low

** With memory does this mean RAM? Or process? **


Sorting

1. Describe in words how the Bubble Sort algorithm works.
This sort goes thru a list repeatedly and compairs each pair of adjacent items
then swaps them if the order is wrong

2. Describe in words how the Merge Sort algorithm works.
It splits it into smaller and smaller lists and puts it into the correct order 
after splitting. Usually with recursion.

3. Describe in words how the Quick Sort algorithm works.
Pick a pivot first from elft or right, then you have to make sure that everything
on the left side of it is lower and on the right is higher. Repeat this until everything 
is sorted.

Git Branching

1. Give an instance when you would use git branching.
If you like to add some code to yours project or maybe someone else's you can branch it
work on it and merge later if you like.

2. What is a pull request?
So you can let others know the changes you have made in a project


